we begin in southern Gaza where at least
40 people have been killed and 60
injured in an Israeli attack in an area
housing displaced people war planes
bombed an encampment in almasi west of
KH Yunis it happened in the vicinity of
a field Hospital run by the British
charity UK Med the attack caused large
craters and widespread Devastation
emergency teams are recovering bodies
and the injured Israel's military says
it targeted a Hamas Command Center but
Hamas has called the claim a blatant
lie well earlier in central Gaza an
Israeli air strike killed several people
after a home was targeted in al bar
refugee camp the injured were rushed to
al- AXA Hospital in De
albala Bara Zale is a vascular surgeon
who has recently returned from Gaza he
joins us now from Flint in Michigan
welcome to the program describe if you
can the kind of chaos and Devastation
that in ensues when air strikes Target
people living in tents and and makeshift
homes and and how that affects any kind
of rescue
effort so in Gaza there's a common
phrase that I learned recently it's very
funny and very sad at the same time the
phrase goes as in Gaza whoever died has
survived and whoever survived is dying
so anytime I hear something like this I
hear about 40 50 people are dead my my
heart or my mind goes to the people who
have survived this attack and by no
means I'm not saying that 40 people is
not a significant number of death even
one civilian dying is one too many but
honestly what I saw in those kind of
attacks when I was there is not only the
severity of the people who actually died
it's the injuries that happened around
it for example one of the stories that
really really stuck to my mind in one of
those attacks there was something that
they called a Precision attack they were
attacking one specific tent around Naser
hospital where I was in Khan unes and
supposedly they attacked one tent but
about 20 tents away from that tent we
have multiple injuries and one specific
story that came to me that really broke
my heart at the time was I I was in the
ER in in Naser hospital and I saw a
young lady she's in her late 20s she was
literally pacing from one side of the ER
to the other she would stay in one side
of the ear for about 2 3 minutes and
then she would literally Pace quickly to
the other side and I was so fascinated I
was like what is she doing why is she
doing this so I dropped everything I'm
doing and I I I ran after her and it
turns out that this lady she's a mother
of two her two daughters one is six and
one is nine or 10 I believe one daughter
has significant shrub nail came to her
face destroying half of her face and I
apologize if I'm sharing too much
graphic information but I think people
has to know this
literally her brain was sticking out you
could see the brain material of that
little child and the ER said you know
what she's Beyond any resuscitation
effort we will let her just pass away
yet she was still breathing she was
still grasping for air so they put her
on one side of the ER where they let all
the little kids die peacefully quote
unquote peacefully on the other end of
the ER it was another her other daughter
who has both legs amputated and she was
actively bleeding from both legs so this
young mother she was torn physically and
mentally she was racing from one side of
the ER to say goodbye to her daughter
whose brain is showing and who's sending
her last breath going to the other side
of the ER to put some pressure on the
other daughter who is actively bleeding
from both amputated legs so this is the
kind of CH that we get after each one of
those attacks and again the focus
usually in the media is about the one
who died and no disrespect to them
that's really tragedy but my heart as a
surgeon or as a physician goes to the
injured mostly pediatric injuries that
happen around those civility or around
those
casualties and with that kind of
unimaginable trauma that you describe
how do you even attempt to carry out
medical procedures uh without the
equipment or supplies that are actually
needed you you try your best and the sad
part is even when you try your best even
when we've done and I'm so proud of my
colleagues in Gaza the doctors the NES I
have seen some amazing cases that are
done under the bombardment but even with
that even with those heroic effort in
between cases whenever I have no cases
no surgery to do I will just go do
rounds and just check patient random
patient in the in the hospital and it
wasn't uncommon where I would go to say
to see someone and I would check I will
ask that someone you have some bandage
you have some gauze in your legs when
was the last time that someone changed
that bandage and the standard of care in
the US is at least once a day at least
once a day you should change the bandage
so it doesn't get infected and the very
common answer would be oh the last time
someone changed this bandage was six
weeks ago so I will grab my scissor and
I will cut that bandage to see what's
underneath it and very very common I
would see life maggot and warms coming
out of the wound it it was literally
eating the Flesh of that poor patient
because no one has even symble gauze
when we talk about supplies in Gaza I'm
not talking about fancy supplies I'm not
talking about surgical material or
surgical instrument I'm literally
talking about Syle gauze and tape they
don't have it and that leads to the
patient I just described to you where no
one has changed the gauze for 6 weeks to
the point where the maggots and the
worms are physically eating his flesh
and very very often we will end up
utting that leg because it was no use
just because of the lack of simple
material which is Gau and dressing and
and
tape with all of this how do you feel
not just as a surgeon but as a human
being when you hear of these kind of
ongoing
strikes I I honestly I don't I I don't
have a way to describe it the the way I
would think about it is what what's the
point like what is the end game of this
what is and not only the air so I I I I
often saw pediatric patient kids coming
up with a bullet to their head and
honestly in my mind I'm thinking how is
that a military Target how is a kid
who's barely 10 or 11 with the bullet to
his head how is that little kid a
military Target honestly it goes beyond
my ability to understand what's the
point of this war anymore given the
significant amount of not only civilian
casualties but pediatric casualties that
we see and we see on the TV and I saw
myself multiple times
there okay with those harrowing accounts
Dr Bara zah we thank you for your time
thank you for being with us thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from
alzer